# mern-cmd

mern-cmd is a command-line interface (CLI) tool that helps you quickly generate boilerplate code for MERN stack projects. It includes templates for Express, React, MongoDB models, controllers, routes, and middlewares. Save time and focus on building your applications instead of setting up repetitive structures!

---

## Features

- **Express Boilerplate**: Generate a basic Express app structure.
- **React Boilerplate**: Generate a basic React app structure.
- **Component Generator**: Create React components within the `src/components` folder.
- **MongoDB Support**: Generate MongoDB models, controllers, routes, and middleware files.
- **Customizable Templates**: Modify boilerplate templates in the `templates` folder to suit your needs.

---

## Installation

### Install Globally
```bash
npm install -g mern-cmd
```

### Install Locally
```bash
npm install mern-cmd
```
---

## Usage

After installation, use the following commands to generate various boilerplate files and folders.

---

### Generate an Express Project

```bash
mern-cmd express <projectName>
```
Creates a new Express app in the specified `<projectName>` directory.

---

### Generate a React Project
```bash
mern-cmd react <projectName>
```
Creates a new React app in the specified `<projectName>` directory.

---

### Add a React Component
```bash
mern-cmd react-component <componentName>
```
Creates a new React component in the `src/components` folder.

---

### Generate a MongoDB Model
```bash
mern-cmd express-model <modelName>
```
Creates a new MongoDB model file in the `models` folder.

---

### Generate a MongoDB Route
```bash
mern-cmd express-route <routeName>
```
Creates a new MongoDB controller file in the `routes` folder.

---

### Generate a MongoDB Controller
```bash
mern-cmd express-controller <controllerName>
```
Creates a new MongoDB controller file in the `controllers` folder.

---

### Generate an Express Middleware
```bash
mern-cmd express-middleware <fileName>
```
Creates a middleware file in the `middlewares` folder.

---

## Project Structure

Here’s an example of the structure for `express` generated by mern-cmd:

```css
projectName/
├── models/
│   └── modelName.js
├── controllers/
│   └── controllerName.js
├── routes/
│   └── routeName.js
├── middlewares/
│   └── middlewareName.js
├── index.js
└── package.json
```
---

Here’s an example of the structure for `react` generated by mern-cmd:

```css
projectName/
├── public/
│   └── index.js
└─── src/
    └── components/
        └── ComponentName.jsx

```

---

## Development

To modify or add templates, edit the files in the `templates` folder of the CLI source code.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you encounter any bugs or have suggestions for improvement, feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

---



